Arya Mahasangh
Arya Mahasangh's goal is to make this world a noble place by imparting Vedic knowledge and progressing one's path towards realization of god and eternal happiness
The word Arya means noble and Mahasangh means grand union. Thus Arya Mahasangh means Grand Union of Noble Souls.

Arya Mahasangh is a parent organisation of many sub organisations.
1. Rashtriya Arya Nirmatri Sabha(राष्ट्रीय आर्य निर्मात्री सभा), also called nirmatri sabha - organises two days workshops(arya prashikshan satr or आर्य प्रशिक्षण सत्र), anybody(16+) can attend it
2. Rashtriya Arya Sanrakshini Sabha(राष्ट्रीय आर्य संरक्षिणी सभा), also called sanrakshini sabha - protect the ayra's who have been intiated by nirmatri sabha, and keep them closely connected with the organisation. also ensure that they are following their daily vedic rituals & attend weekly satsangs in arya samaj. it is the duty of sanrakshini sabha to protect every individual arya, wherever he/she may be in the world
3. Rashtriya Arya Sanvardhini Sabha(राष्ट्रीय आर्य संवर्धिनी सभा), also called sanvardhini sabha
4. Rashitrya Arya Kshatriya Sabha(राष्ट्रीय आर्य क्षत्रिय सभा), also called kshatriya sabha
5. Rashitrya Arya Chatra Sabha(राष्ट्रीय आर्य छात्र सभा), also called chatra sabha
6. Vanprashth Ayog(वानप्रस्थ आयोग)
7. Arya Gurukul Mahavidyalaya(आर्य गुरुकुल महाविद्यालय)
8. Aryaa Gurukul Mahavidyalaya(आर्या गुरुकुल महाविद्यालय)
9. Aryaa Parishad(आर्या परिषद्)

With the help of all above organisations, Arya Mahasangh ultimate goal is to fulfill the idea of Vedic nation(that is Aryavarta: Land of (Arya)Noble people) as envisaged by Swami Dayanand Saraswati.

for anyone to become part of Arya Mahasangh, they first need to attend two days workshop(arya prashikshan satr or आर्य प्रशिक्षण सत्र) organised by nirmatri sabha. after completing the workshop, they are evaluated by the acharya(the person/teacher who conducted the workshop), if the candidate is fit to become an Arya, they are given a sacred thread(yajnopavit or यज्ञोपवित). after initiation, they are expected to follow the principles of Arya Samaj and work towards its goals. They are expected to become more active in the organisation & advance his path in the organisation(by becoming a vedic preacher(उपदेशक), spokesperson(प्रवक्ता), teacher also called achary(आचार्य)).







